# **ARRAY methods**

# push()

add to end

---

# pop()

remove from end

---

# shift()

remove from begin

---

# unshift()

add to begin

---

# concat()

Concatenates two or more arrays  
Doesn't change the original arrays

```js
var myGirls = ["Cecilie", "Lone"];
var myBoys = ["Emil", "Tobias", "Linus"];
var myChildren = myGirls.concat(myBoys);
myChildren = ["Cecilie", "Lone", "Emil", "Tobias", "Linus"];
```

---

# includes()

returns **true** or **false** if the Array includes an element.

```js
arr = ["Apple", "Orange", "Kiwi"];
arr.includes("Orange") === true;
```

---

# indexOf()

Returns the index of an elements of the Array.  
If it is not found, it returns **-1**

```js
arr = ["Apple", "Orange", "Kiwi"];
arr.indexOf("Kiwi") === 2;
arr.indexOf("Banana") === -1;
```

---

# join()

Creates a string from an array.  
If no argument is passed, it's separated by a comma ( , ). Otherwise you can pass by what it will be joined.

```js
arr = ["Apple", "Orange", "Kiwi"];
arr.join() === "Apple,Orange,Kiwi";
arr.join("++") === "Apple++Orange++Kiwi";
```

---

# split()

**WARNING** this is a **STRING** method.  
It splits a string into array by the characters inserted in the method.  
It's the opposite of join()

```js
string = "apple,orange,kiwi";
string.split(",") === ["Apple", "Orange", "Kiwi"];
```

---

# reverse()

Reverses an array.
**The original array is changed**

```js
arr = ["Apple", "Orange", "Kiwi"];
arr.reverse() === ["Kiwi", "Orange", "Apple"];
```

---

# slice()

Copy portion of an array. Returns a **new array**  
 **It doesn't impact the orignal array.**

It takes an index argument from when you want to copy the array and another to when you want to end. If you put 0, it will copy the whole array.

```js
arr = ["Apple", "Orange", "Kiwi"];
arr.slice(1) === ["Orange", "Kiwi"];
arr.slice(1, 2) === ["Orange"];
arr.slice(0) === ["Apple", "Orange", "Kiwi"];
arr.slice(-2) === ["Orange", "Kiwi"];
```

---

# splice()

Remove / replace elements of an array. **It changes the original array**.

It returns the elements deleted.

It takes three arguments :

splice( _where to begin_ , _how many delete_ , _what to insert_)

```js
arr = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
arr.splice(2, 2, "test") === [1, 2, "test", 5];
```

---

# sort()

Sorts an array by the first character (after converting it to a string).  
**Changes the original array**

```js
arr = ["Brad", "Tim", "David", "Angela"];
arr.sort() === ["Angela", "Brad", "David", "Tim"];
arr = [5, 3, 8, 1, 100];
arr.sort() === [1, 100, 3, 5, 8];
```

---

# **ARRAY methods with callbacks**

# forEach()

Takes a callback function that is applied to each element of the array.

First parameter is the indivual element for each instance of the loop. Second parameter is the index.

The returned value can mutate the original array

```js
nums = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
nums.forEach(function (n) {
  console.log(n * 2);
});
```

# map()

Returns a **new array** from the fonction you pass for each element of the original array.

It's like a forEach that returns a new array and doesn't change the original array.

```js
nums = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6];
numsTimesTwo = nums.map(function (n) {
  return n * 2;
});
numsTimesTwo === [2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12];
```

---

# filter()

Returns a **new array** with all elements that passed the test implemented by the provided function

```js
arr = [9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1];
newArr = arr.filter((elem) => {
  return elem % 2 === 1;
});
newArr === [9, 7, 5, 3, 1];
```

# find()

The find() method returns **the value** of the first element in an array that pass a test (provided as a function).

```js
arr = [5, 3, 8, 1];
arr.find((elem) => {
  return elem > 6;
}) === 8;
```

---

# some()

Takes a test function and verify if at least one element of the array passes the test. Returns a boolean value.

# every()

Takes a test function and verify if every element of the array passes the test. Returns a boolean value.

# sort()

We saw sort() with its default parameter and it sorts an array converting every element to a string and then sorting it by the first letter.

But we can pass a callback function to sort that can be more usefull.

It takes two parameters: a and b.

if the comparison between a and b is less than 0, a is sorted before b.

If the comparison equals to 0, it's left unchanged.

If the comparison is more than 0, b is sorted before a.

**It mutates de original array**

```js
arr = [5, 2, 9, 1, 4];

arr.sort((a, b) => {
  return a - b;
});
arr === [1, 2, 4, 5, 9];
```

# reduce()

From an array of values, it "reduces" it to ONE value. The way it is going to do that is defined in the callback function.

It takes two parameters :

reduce((accumulator, currentValue) => {})

It will iterate through each element of the array performing the actions established by the fonction and updating the "accumulator"

After the function, you can pass a starting "accumulator".

```js
arr = [10,20,30,40,50]
arr.reduce((accumulator, currentVal)={
    return accumulator + currentVal
}, 1000) === 1150
```
